# Bash Scripting Introduction

## Shebang

The first line of a script is usually the interpreter directive, which specifies the interpreter that should be used to execute the script. 

- This line starts with the `#!` characters, known as the Shebang, hence the name Shebang line. 
- After the `#!` comes the path to the script interpreter. For Bash scripts, the interpreter is typically `/bin/sh` or `/bin/bash`.

The Shebang line is not mandatory, but it is recommended. **Without it, you would need to manually pass the script to the interpreter.**

```bash
$ /bin/sh ./script.sh
# or
$ bash ./script.sh
```

## Execution Permissions and Paths

Scripts need execution permissions

```bash
chmod +x script.sh
```

In addition to execution permissions, when calling a script, you generally need to specify the script's path (e.g., `path/script.sh`). If you place the script in a directory specified by the `$PATH` environment variable, you don't need to specify the path. **Bash will automatically look in these directories for any executable files with the same name.**

It is recommended to create a `~/bin` subdirectory in your home directory specifically for executable scripts and then add `~/bin` to `$PATH`.

```bash
export PATH=$PATH:~/bin
```
and then reload `.bashrc` once, and this configuration will take effect.

```bash
$ source ~/.bashrc
```

## Script Arguments

When calling a script, you can include arguments after the script file name.

```bash
$ script.sh word1 word2 word3
```

- `$0`: The script filename, i.e., `script.sh`
- `$1` to `$9`: Correspond to the first to ninth arguments of the script
- `$#`: The total number of arguments
- `$@`: All arguments, **with spaces separating the arguments**

```bash
#!/bin/bash

for i in "$@"; do
  echo $i
done
```

## Configuration Item Argument Terminator `--`

Arguments starting with `-` and `--` are interpreted by Bash as options. However, sometimes they are not options but part of an actual argument, such as a filename called `-f` or `--file`.

```bash
$ cat -f
$ cat --file
```

The original intention of the above commands is to output the contents of the files `-f` and `--file`, but they are interpreted by Bash as options.

At this point, you can use the configuration item argument terminator `--`, which tells Bash that the arguments following it that start with `-` and `--` are not options and can only be interpreted as actual arguments.

```bash
cat -- -f
cat -- --file
ls -- $myPath
grep -- "--hello" example.txt
```

## exit Command

```bash
# Exit status is 0 (success)
$ exit 0

# Exit status is 1 (failure)
$ exit 1
```

## source Command

- The `source` command is used to execute a script, usually to reload a configuration file.

```bash
$ source .bashrc
```

The biggest feature of the `source` command is that it executes the script in the current Shell, unlike directly executing a script, which creates a new sub-shell. **Therefore, when executing a script with `source`, you don't need to `export` variables.**

- Another use of the `source` command is to load external libraries within a script.

```bash
#!/bin/bash

source ./lib.sh

function_from_lib
```

- `source` has a shorthand form, and a dot (`.`) can be used to represent it.

```bash
$ . ./.bashrc
```

## Alias, alias Command

The `alias` command is used to specify an alias for a command, making it easier to remember

```bash
alias NAME=DEFINITION
```

```bash
$ alias today='date +"%A, %B %-d, %Y"'
$ today
Monday, January 6, 2020
```

```bash
$ alias rm='rm -i'
```

```bash
$ alias echo='echo It says: '
$ echo hello world
It says: hello world
```

After specifying an alias, you can use it like any other command. **Generally, commonly used aliases are written at the end of `~/.bashrc`.** Additionally, you can only define aliases for commands;