## Components of Linux

Components of Linux include:
- Linux Kernel
- System-level applications

The kernel is the core for scheduling the CPU, memory, file system, network communication, and I/O. 

The kernel combined + system-level programs = a Linux distribution (such as Red Hat, CentOS, Ubuntu).

## Linux Boot Process

1. Kernel initialization
2. Execution of init
3. System initialization
4. Establishing terminals
5. User login to the system

## Linux Directory Structure

`/bin`:
bin stands for Binaries, which refers to the directory that holds the most frequently used commands.

`/boot`:
This directory contains the core files used when booting Linux, including some symbolic links and image files.

`/etc`:
etc is used to store all the configuration files and subdirectories required for system administration.

`/home`:
This directory is typically where user-specific data and configuration files are stored.

`/lib`:
lib stands for Library, and this directory contains the most basic dynamic link libraries needed by the system.

`/opt`:
opt stands for optional, and this is the directory where additional software installed on the host is placed

`/tmp`:
This directory is used for temporary files.

`/usr`:
usr stands for unix shared resources, and this directory contains many user applications and files, similar to the "Program Files" directory in Windows.

`/var`:
It is customary to place directories that are frequently modified under this directory, including various log files.