## User Management Commands

1. **`useradd username`**:
   - `-g` specifies the user's group. If not specified, a group with the same name is created and the user is automatically added to it.

2. **`userdel username`**:
   - `-r`, deletes the user's home directory. If not specified, the home directory is retained when the user is deleted.

3. **`passwd username`**:
   - Used to change the password for a user.

4. **`id username`**:
   - Displays the user's UID, GID, and the groups the user belongs to.

5. **`su`**:
   - Switches to another user.

6. **`usermod`**:
   - Modifies user information.

## Group Management Commands

1. **`groupadd groupname`**:
   - Creates a new group.

2. **`groupdel groupname`**:
   - Deletes a group.

3. **`groupmod`**:
   - Modifies group information.

## User and Group Files

- `/etc/passwd`: Stores user information such as username, UID, GID, home directory, etc.
- `/etc/shadow`: Stores encrypted passwords and password expiry information.
- `/etc/group`: Stores group information such as group name and members of the group.
- `/etc/gshadow`: Stores encrypted group passwords and group administrator information.


- `getent passwd`
   - Views the system's users and user groups.

- `getent group`
   - Views the system's user groups.

- `users`
   - Views the current logged-in users.

Additionally, for configuring sudo authentication for a regular user without a password prompt, you can use the following command:

```bash
visudo # Open /etc/sudoers
{username} ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL
```